
Rowland-Smith
MLB
Ryan Rowland-Smith
Inherited already hyphenated name from parents

The MLB didn’t have a player with a hyphenated last name until 2007, when Rowland-Smith took the
mound for the Seattle Mariners, and the league’s only had three others since. Rowland-Smith,
whose Twitter handle is @hyphen18, inherited his last name from his father, Rob Rowland-Smith,
an Australian trainer known as “The Sandhill Warrior.” Rowland-Smith’s now a baseball analyst
with his former team. He was again a part of MLB hyphen history when he called a Rangers’ game
in May 2018 with both Isiah Kiner-Falefa and Austin Bibens-Dirkx in the lineup—the first time in
MLB history that two starters sported hyphens.


Green-Ellis
NFL
BenJarvus Green-Ellis
Combined parents’ names

Green-Ellis combined his mother’s last name, Green, with his father’s last name, Ellis. As for
his first name, his mom just liked how it sounded. Put it all together and you have “The Law
Firm.” It’s a fitting nickname for the former NFL running back who thought about going to law
school. Green-Ellis spent the 2008-2011 seasons with the New England Patriots and notably never
lost a fumble in over 500 carries. Green-Ellis played a couple of more seasons for the
Cincinnati Bengals before making his exit from the league in 2014. He’s still remembered as
having one of the best nicknames in sports.


Diggins-Smith
WNBA
Skylar Diggins-Smith
Married and combined names with spouse

Then just Skylar Diggins, Diggins-Smith led her Notre Dame team to three consecutive Final Four
Appearances between 2010–2013. She was selected 3rd overall in the 2013 WNBA draft, and by 2017
she had added a hyphen to the back of her jersey after marrying longtime boyfriend Daniel Smith.
Since the WNBA was founded in 1996, 33 out of a total 919 players, or 3.6%, hyphenated their
last names after marriage. That’s in the same range as a 2006 study of New York Times’ wedding
announcements (4%) and a 2007 survey of American Community Survey responses (1.3%).



Abdul-Jabbar
NBA
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar
Changed name for religious reasons

Abdul-Jabbar entered the NBA during the 1969-1970 season under a different name: Lew Alcindor. He
converted to Islam in 1968 but didn’t publically begin using his hyphenated name until a few
years later in 1971. In Arabic, the prefix “al” is an article, similar to the English “the.”
“Abdul” is a combination of two prefixes: “abd,” meaning “servant of” and “al.” Abdul-Jabbar’s
name means “noble servant of Allah.” In his 2017 autobiography, he wrote: “People did not want
me messing with their idea of who I was or what I represented to them. To many, by changing my
religion and name, I was no longer the typical American kid playing a typical American sport,
embodying typical American values.”


Grand-Pierre
NHL
Jean-Luc Grand-Pierre
Culturally traditional hyphenated name

Grand-Pierre was dubbed the “The Hyphenator” for his double double-barrelled name. The former NHL
defenseman is from Quebec, where hyphenated last names are common. French influence in places
like Canada, Haiti, and New Orleans gives us names like Grand-Pierre’s and Jason Pierre-Paul and
Stanley Jean-Baptiste. Hyphenated names are also common in African culture where names can be
derived from family history (see Pops Mensah-Bonsu) and in Hispanic culture where the mother’s
name is included in the family name (see David Diaz-Infante). A few years after Grand-Pierre was
born, Quebec also implemented a provincial policy in 1981 that prevented women from legally
taking on their husband’s last name. The goal was to promote equality for the spouses, but it
also created “generation hyphenation.”



